In the previous video, we started our
object orientated programming master test
and we got the basic
hamburger class up and going.
So let's now finish this off and
create the healthy burger class as
well as the deluxe burger class.
So firstly,
let's create the healthy burger.
I'm gonna create a new class.
I'm gonna call that healthy burger.
Now what we need to do is
we need to extend from
our basic burger class,
which is hamburger,
so we need some of that functionality.
And if you recall,
we need to add two additional extras.
We've got the ability with
the healthy burger to
add two additions to that burger.
Just to go back and confirm that.
Now, healthy burger, this part here.
Healthy burger on a brown,
red, brown rye, I should say,
bread roll plus two additional
items could be added.
Healthy burger can have
a total of six items.
And there was a hint that I gave you to
say you probably wanna process the two
additional items in this new healthy
burger class, not in the base class,
since the two additional items are really
only available in this healthy burger.
So let's do that.
So consequently, we need to add two
fields I should say to this class,
and they're going to be private string.
And we'll call them healthy Extra and
we'll call it healthyExtra1Name and
private double healthy.
Extra1Price.
And we'll do the same for those two for
the second edition for the burger.
And incidentally, the error on the screen
is because we haven't implemented
a constructor yet, no default constructor,
and that's because the only constructor we
created in the Hamburger class
actually had parameters.
As you can see there,
we didn't have an empty one, so
consequently we need a way to
actually call that method.
Now, we're gonna do things
a little bit different here,
oops I topped that topper there,
healthy, healthy.
Now what were going to do
is with the constructor,
we know the type of burger that
we're actually working on.
We've got a healthy burger.
We know the name of it and
we know the type of bread.
So consequently,
when we're creating constructor,
the only two parameters we want in
the constructor is the meat and the price.
Because we're actually gonna hard
code the values for the name and
the type of brown bread, in this case,
the type of roll, because that's
what's in this healthy burger.
That's what we're selling.
So creating a constructor, now I'm not
actually going to choose any of these
extras because none of these extras
are actually going to the constructor.
But I click on okay, I actually get the
parameters that are built into the base
class automatically because they're needed
to make this healthy burger class valid.
What I'm going to do, as I mentioned,
I'm going to delete some of these.
Firstly, the healthy one,
I should have selected none there.
I obviously selected the healthy
extra one name by mistake, so
I'm gonna leave that out.
Delete that, and really the only
parameters I actually want,
as I mentioned, are the meat and
the price, because the other two
we're going to add manually.
So we're gonna delete those like so.
And our super call, we still need to
actually pass those two parameters,
but I'm going to actually change that and
now we're gonna call it our healthy.
And the bread roll type, we mentioned
before that was going to be brown rye,
so we're gonna say brown rye.
So that's us creating a valid healthy
burger class now based on those
parameters, because we know the top
burger that we're creating.
For the two additions, we need to do, very
similar to what we did for the other ones.
So we wanna put public,
we'll put addhealthedition1, and
that's gonna have the 9 and
the double for the price,
and it'll be
this.healthy1ExtraName = name,
this.healthy1ExtraPrice = price.
And do the same for
the second healthy additional item.
Like so.
Okay, I'll make a bit of space here.
So that's our basic setup for
the healthy burger.
The other thing we wanna
do now is we need to
have a look at that
itemized hamburger method.
So we go back to our hamburger class.
We have this itemized hamburger method.
And that of course create, or
will actually summed up the total for
the hamburger.
But if you think about it now,
we've got two additional items
that we can optionally add.
So right now if we run this healthy
burger, it'll actually work.
So if we change this, and
we'll put healthy burger, and
we'll call it healthyBurger
= new healthyBurger.
And remembering that we've only
got two items to add here.
That's the meat, and
we'll say this one's got bacon,
and let's just say the price is $5.67.
So if we do our
healthyburger.itemizehamburger,
if we run this, you can see
we've got a healthy hamburger on
a brown rye roll with bacon,
price is $5.67.
So it's accepted our parameters,
obviously the name and
the top of bread roll in our constructor.
That's all working fine and we'll be able
to add an item to that quite nicely as
well, healthyBurger.add
additional item one.
And let's just say that was egg, and
we're a greedy restaurant,
so we'll say it was $5.43.
And actually what I'll do is I'll
remove that out of there and
just paste it into there like so.
So then if we run that,
we should see that that is still working.
And the reason that it's working is
our base functionality built into
the application is,
built into the base class, I should say,
the hamburger class, is working.
So those methods that we created in the
base hamburger class are still there and
worked quite nicely.
But the issue, of course,
now is we haven't got a mechanism
to tally up the price.
We can actually add an item to the
hamburger, to the healthy hamburger, so
a healthyburger.add additional price,
let's just say it's lentils.
No way you'd put lentils with a hamburger,
but anyway, $3.41, bracket and save,
just hit the one.
But there's no mechanism at
the moment to add that to the cost,
the total price for the hamburger, and
the reason is we haven't got an itemized
hamburger method for this class here.
So let's go back to
the healthy burger class and
actually add an itemized
hamburger method so
that we can actually tally up the price
for these additional health items as well.
So to do that, what we wanna do
is we wanna override that method.
So we're gonna click on override,
or select override.
We're gonna go to hamburger, and
go to the itemized hamburger method and
we're going to override that.
Click OK, so by default that's come back
with the super.itemizedHamburger, and
returning that as the price.
We wanna change that, cuz what we wanna
do is we want to actually put a double,
we'll put hamburger price again.
Price equals, so what this is doing now,
it's actually calling
the itemized hamburger method
that's in our hamburger class.
It's calling that, and that's coming
back with the itemized price for
the basic hamburger and
the four additions.
So that's what we got to start with, but
now what we need to do is we
need to figure out how to
add the extra items to that price,
which turns out that that's quite simple.
We can actually just do the similar
test that we did in the hamburger class,
this.healthyExtraName is
not equal to null.
Then we do a hamburgerPrice
+=_this.healthyExtra1Price.
And then I think we put Added
extra one name plus for
an extra, for an extra,
this.healthyExtraPrice1, like so.
And I'll just cancel that so we get a bit
more space to see what we're doing here.
So that was number one.
We've added that, and
then of course we do the same for
the second healthy additional option.
So extra two is not equal to null,
which means there is one,
there has been one passed to us.
Actually output the second name,
the second price, and
then at this point we can do
a return hamburger price.
This should be the price
including the healthy extras.
So now if you go back and what we'll
do is we'll actually change this.
We'll actually put the itemized
hamburger at the end there, so
you don't need to display it twice.
So we're now actually adding a normal
item, an additional normal item,
then we're also adding
a healthy addition as well.
Well, we're itemizing, and then let's
actually just put an output here
just to make sure that
the price seems to be working.
Total healthy burger price is plus healthy
burger price, and fix the brackets up.
So now if we run that, we can see now
we've got healthy hamburger on rye,
price is $5.67, added an egg for
an extra $5.43, added lentils for
an extra $3.41, which you can see is
now working, and the price is $14.51.
And if we just use our calculator
to make sure that's working,
5.67 plus 5.43 plus 3.41 equals 14.51,
so our processing is working great.
So you can see now that we've actually
got our healthy burger working nicely and
calling the appropriate functions, so
what we now need to do is
implement the deluxe burger.
And if you recall,
the deluxe burger, we'll go back and
just have a look at our notes for
that again.
The deluxe burger comes with chips and
drinks as additions,
but no extra additions are allowed.
So you need to find a way to automatically
add these two new additions at the time
the deluxe burger is created,
or the object is created,
and then to prevent other
additions being made.
So let's go ahead and do that.
What we're going to do is
create another class and
call that DeluxeBurger, and
we're going to extend from hamburger.
Now we don't actually need any new fields
for this, because we're not processing any
new additions for this like we did for
the healthy burger.
But what we wanna do is create a default
constructor with no parameters.
We're gonna put everything in the one
constructor, so we're gonna create that.
And, again, by default it adds those,
but we're going to remove those.
Instead, what we're going to do is
we're going to do these manually.
So we're gonna call it the deluxe.
For the meat let's say it's got
sausage and bacon, cuz it is a deluxe.
Price, let's just say it's $14.53,
54, and we'll say white for
the bread roll top.
So that's now created our deluxe burger,
and we also mention
that we needed to add two additions,
which were the chips and the drink.
Now we don't want to enable
those methods later, but
what we can do is we can put
those in the constructor, and
we can do that by putting super.add
hamburgeraddition1 Chips.
Let's just say they were $2.75, and
super.addhamburgeraddition2, or
put drink, whatever the drink was, $1.81.
So that's our way of
creating the deluxe burger
with the additions at the time
the object is created.
Now the other thing we wanna do, because
by default, if we actually go to run this,
we should find that it'll work.
And we'll call this the DeluxeBurger
db = new DeluxeBurger(); no
parameters are needed.
And if we then do a db.itemizeHamburger(),
if we run that,
you should find that works.
A deluxe hamburger on a white roll with
sausage and bacon, price is $14.54,
add a chips for an extra $2.75,
add a drink for an extra $1.81.
And notice how they were
added in the constructor, but
the problem we've got now is,
again going back to the code up above.
We needed a way to make sure that,
actually I'll delete that so
I got a little bit more space, but
no extra additions are allowed.
So in other words, we can't add anything
else other than what's already in there.
But, at the moment, if we go back here and
have a look, we can actually add those.
We can put db.add additional item 1,
should not do this.
So we can actually do that, and
of course that bar that's the rule
that we've set for ourselves.
Actually what I should have done
was made that additional item 3,
then should also display that
in the right place like that.
So if you run that,
we've got this line here,
which shouldn't have been able to do that.
So the question is how do we prevent
those methods from being called just for
the deluxe burger method?
Well it turns out that's
actually quite easy.
We can actually override.
So what we can do is we can go back
here to our deluxe burger class, and
we can put override.
And we can go back to our hamburger class,
and
I can select the add additional item 1,
2, 3, and 4, and
I can actually prevent those from being
called by overriding those methods.
So I can click on okay.
That's added those, and what we're going
to do is just change the code, we're not
gonna call the super, we're actually
just going to put a message there.
The message is going to be, can not add
additional Items to a deluxe burger,
like so.
So if you had added that one for
each of the four additional methods
in the base hamburger class.
We've overridden those functions, those
methods, just in the deluxe burger class,
so consequently now if I go back
to our main and run this again,
you can see what's happened there.
We've still being able to create
the class and to add the chips and
the drinks initially, and the reason
that that works is if you look back at
our deluxe burger code, we're calling the
super.addHamburgerAddition item method.
So that's why that's working, so we're
actually calling the methods that are in
the hamburger class,
in the base hamburger class, these here.
And it's quite happily adding those,
because we're calling that
from the super dot and
whatever the name of the method is.
But in this case what we're saying
is we're actually overriding
the add hamburger addition one method for
the deluxe burger class, but
we're actually not enabling
that code to be called.
So consequently, when we try to do this,
this should not do this.
It's calling this code here from our
deluxe burger, the add additional item 1,
cannot add additional items
to a deluxe burger, and
that's what's coming
up on the screen here.
So that's how you go
about overriding it and
preventing functionality from being
processed, as you can see in that example.
So that's our application,
that's our base hamburger application.
I hope you've got a lot out of
these two videos, and actually for
these last two sections of
the object orientated course
alright so now that you've seen that
solution I just want to make a point
that it's certainly not a hundred
perfect but I think it's a good solution
by using the knowledge that we've
learned in previous sections now in an
ideal world you'd use something like a
list or an array but lists and arrays
are explained later in the course so
this was designed for you to take this
challenge based on the information
already shown in the course so what you
can do though is revisit this challenge
later once you've learnt these other
things this is an arrays armed with that
new knowledge and look at improving your
solution now you may also notice that
there's some repeated code but that's
actually okay for now later you're going
to learn more and how to remove repeated
code also very importantly keep in mind
that you don't have to match the code
100% as your solution it's great if it
works the same as mine but your code can
and probably will be different and
perhaps vastly different than the
solution I've shown there and that's
because in programming there's almost
always many solutions to a particular
challenge and in this case that's
certainly true and I think that's what
makes this a good challenge and lastly
again many students have shared their
solutions in the Q&A section of the
course so it's a good idea to check the
Q&A and see their solutions once you've
attempted it yourself
and I hope you did well with our challenge,
as well.
In the next section of the course we're
going to be talking about arrays,
which I'm sure you're
gonna find very useful.
So I'll see you in that next section.